sample onboarding reference page (#2507)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/insomnia/enterprise-onboarding.md

---
title: Get started with Insomnia Enterprise

> description: Learn how to fully set up your Insomnia Enterprise instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to set up your Insomnia Enterprise instance.
```

content_type: reference
layout: reference
breadcrumbs: 
  - /insomnia/
  - /insomnia/enterprise/
products:
    - insomnia
tier: enterprise
related_resources:
  - text: Enterprise
    url: /insomnia/enterprise/
  - text: Enterprise account management
    url: /insomnia/enterprise-account-management/
  - text: Enterprise user management
    url: /insomnia/enterprise-user-management/

next_steps:
  - text: Documents
    url: /insomnia/documents/
  - text: Collections
    url: /insomnia/collections/
  - text: Environments
    url: /insomnia/environments/
  - text: Mock servers
    url: /insomnia/mock-servers/
  - text: Scripts
    url: /insomnia/scripts/

---

If you're new to Insomnia Enterprise, this document will guide you through the full setup of your instance in [**Insomnia Admin**](https://app.insomnia.rest/).

## 1. Activate your Enterprise membership

Once you've signed up for the Insomnia Enterprise plan through the [sales team](https://insomnia.rest/pricing/contact), you'll get an activation code.
The first thing you'll need to do is:

> 1. Go to [Change subscription plan](https://app.insomnia.rest/app/subscription/update).

Reviewer: This link gave me a 404. Can we also provide the UI instructions for how they can get to this location in their dashboard?

1. Select the Enterprise plan, and enter your activation code.

Once this is done, you'll be the owner of the Enterprise instance and have access to all the Enterprise features.

## 2. Create organizations

By default, your account is created with an organization named **Personal Workspace**. 
You can invite users to that organization, but you can also create other organizations to manage access to projects.
For example, you could have a _Product_ organization and an _Engineering_ organization, with different projects accessible to different users.

> To create organizations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Go to [**Your organizations**](https://app.insomnia.rest/app/dashboard/organizations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Insomnia admin console, navigate to [**Your organizations**](https://app.insomnia.rest/app/dashboard/organizations).
```
Not sure what we call the admin web console part of Insomnia

1. Click **New organization**.

> 1. Enter a name and click **Create organization**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **FIELD NAME HERE** field, enter a name for your organization.
1. Click **Create organization**.
```

## 3. Create teams

You can add individual users to organizations, but you can also create teams and link them to organizations.
Using the _Product_ and _Engineering_ organizations example above, you could create:

* An _Admin_ team which has access to both organizations

> * A _Dev_ team which has access to the engineering organization only
> * A _Product_ team which has access to the product organization only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A _Dev_ team which only has access to the engineering organization
* A _Product_ team which only has access to the product organization
```

{:.info}

> > You can either create teams manually, or through your [SCIM](#set-up-scim) provider. Teams created manually can be synchronized with SCIM teams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You can either create teams manually, or through your [SCIM](#7-enable-scim) provider. Manually created teams can be synchronized with SCIM teams.
```

To create teams manually:

> 1. Go to [**Teams**](https://app.insomnia.rest/app/enterprise/team).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Insomnia admin console, navigate to [**Your organizations**](https://app.insomnia.rest/app/dashboard/organizations).
1. From the sidebar, click [**Teams**](https://app.insomnia.rest/app/enterprise/team).
```

1. Click **Create Team**. 
1. Enter a name and description, and click **Create team**.
1. Once a team is created, open it and click the **+** button to link one or several organizations to the team.

Each time a new member is added to the team, they will automatically have access to the linked organizations.

## 4. Invite users

New users can be invited to your Enterprise instance in three different ways:
* Manually through an organization
* Manually through a team
* Automatically with [SCIM](#set-up-scim)

{:.info}
> **Notes**:
> * Each pending invitation uses a seat in your instance.

> > * An invitation expires after 30 days. Once an invitation expires, the corresponding seat is freed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> * An invitation expires after 30 days. Once an invitation expires, the corresponding seat is open.
```

> > * When you remove a user from an org or team, you also need to remove them from the [Licenses](https://app.insomnia.rest/app/enterprise/licenses) page to free the seat.

Reviewer 2: Just to be super explicit, think worth noting this is true even if you've removed them from EVERY org and EVERY team.

> > * When you remove a user from an org or team, you also need to remove them from the [Licenses](https://app.insomnia.rest/app/enterprise/licenses) page to free the seat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> * When you remove a user from an org or team, you must also remove them from the [Licenses](https://app.insomnia.rest/app/enterprise/licenses) page to free the seat.
```

### Invite a user to an organization

1. Go to [Organizations](https://app.insomnia.rest/app/dashboard/organizations) and open the org in which you want to invite users.
1. In the **Collaborators** tab, enter the users' email addresses and click **Invite**.
1. By default, users are added with the **Member** role, but you can change their role to **Admin** if needed.

Once the users accept the invitation, they will have access to the content in the selected organization.

### Invite a user to a team

1. Go to [Teams](https://app.insomnia.rest/app/enterprise/team) and open the team in which you want to invite users.
1. Enter the users' email addresses, select a role, and click **Invite**.

Once the users accept the invitation, they will have access to the organizations linked to their team.

## 5. Add a domain

> Adding a domain allows you to automatically manage users with email addresses in that domain. It's also a prerequisite for SSO and SCIM.

Reviewer 2: This is just a random example, but I love how often you pack a ton of info into two sentences and get right to the point. Thank you!

Once your domain is created, you can click it to access its settings. For more details, see [Add domains](/insomnia/enterprise-account-management/#add-domains).

## 6. Enable SSO

Once your domain is verified, you can set up SSO with SAML 2.0 or OIDC with your preferred provider.

See our how-to guides to learn how to configure SSO for Insomnia with:
* [Okta SAML](/how-to/okta-saml-sso-insomnia/)
* [Okta OpenID Connect](/how-to/okta-oidc-sso-insomnia/)
* [Azure SAML](/how-to/azure-saml-sso-insomnia/)

## 7. Enable SCIM

Once you've configured SSO, you can use the same provider to set up SCIM.

See our how-to guides to learn how to configure SCIM for Insomnia with:
* [Okta SAML](/how-to/configure-scim-for-insomnia-with-okta/)
* [Azure SAML](/how-to/configure-scim-for-insomnia-with-azure/)

## 8. Configure storage control

Insomnia allows you to have control over the [storage options](/insomnia/storage/) used in your instance. You can define whether users can use [Cloud Sync](/insomnia/storage/#cloud-sync), [Local Vault](/insomnia/storage/#local-vault), or [Git Sync](/insomnia/storage/#git-sync) storage, or a combination of these.

> To set up storage control:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Go to [**Storage**](https://app.insomnia.rest/app/enterprise/storage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Insomnia admin console, navigate to your Insomnia account dropdown menu and click **Company**.
1. Click **Enterprise Controls**.
1. In the sidebar, click [**Storage**](https://app.insomnia.rest/app/enterprise/storage).
```

> 1. Select the storage options to allow for:
>   * Members' personal workspaces
>   * Owners' personal workspaces
>   * Organizations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the **Edit** icon for your personal workspaces and organizations.
1. Select the storage options you want to allow.
1. Click **Save**.
```
